--- 
wordpress_id: 139
title: Hidden Windows Apps
wordpress_url: http://anilwadghule.com/blog/?p=139
layout: post
---
To run any of these apps go to Start &gt; Run and type the executable name (ie charmap). <span class="caps">WINDOWS XP HIDDEN APPS</span>:<br />=====================================<br />1) Character Map = charmap.exe (very useful for finding unusual characters)<br />2) Disk Cleanup = cleanmgr.exe<br />3) Clipboard Viewer = clipbrd.exe (views contents of Windows clipboard)<br />4) Dr Watson = drwtsn32.exe (Troubleshooting tool)<br />5) DirectX diagnosis = dxdiag.exe (Diagnose & test DirectX, video &amp; sound cards)<br />6) Private character editor = eudcedit.exe (allows creation or modification of characters)<br />7) IExpress Wizard = iexpress.exe (Create self-extracting / self-installing package)<br />8) Microsoft Synchronization Manager = mobsync.exe (appears to allow synchronization of files on the network for when working offline. Apparently undocumented).<br />9) Windows Media Player 5.1 = mplay32.exe (Retro version of Media Player, very basic).<br />10) <span class="caps">ODBC </span>Data Source Administrator = odbcad32.exe (something to do with databases)<br />11) Object Packager = packager.exe (to do with packaging objects for insertion in files, appears to have comprehensive help files).<br />12) System Monitor = perfmon.exe (very useful, highly configurable tool, tells you everything you ever wanted to know about any aspect of PC performance, for uber-geeks only )<br />13) Program Manager = progman.exe (Legacy Windows 3.x desktop shell).<br />14) Remote Access phone book = rasphone.exe (documentation is virtually non-existant).<br />15) Registry Editor = regedt32.exe [also regedit.exe] (for hacking the Windows Registry).<br />16) Network shared folder wizard = shrpubw.exe (creates shared folders on network).<br />17) File signature verification tool = sigverif.exe<br />18) Volume Contro = sndvol32.exe (I’ve included this for those people that lose it from the System Notification area).<br />19) System Configuration Editor = sysedit.exe (modify System.ini & Win.ini just like in Win98! ).<br />20) Syskey = syskey.exe (Secures <span class="caps">XP </span>Account database – use with care, it’s virtually undocumented but it appears to encrypt all passwords, I’m not sure of the full implications).<br />21) Microsoft Telnet Client = telnet.exe<br />22) Driver Verifier Manager = verifier.exe (seems to be a utility for monitoring the actions of drivers, might be useful for people having driver problems. Undocumented).<br />23) Windows for Workgroups Chat = winchat.exe (appears to be an old NT utility to allow chat sessions over a <span class="caps">LAN</span>, help files available).<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">from</span> <a href="http://www.soritong.computingxp.com/?p=25">little box</a>
